---
layout: post
title:  "CLARIN UI Event"
permalink: /uievent/
isStaticPost: false
---
### How to use TEI for the annotation of CMC and social media resources: a practical introduction

#### October 5th, 2017, 10:30–14:00, Eurac Research, Italy

The goal of the event is to give a practical introduction into the annotation
of language data from genres of computer-mediated communication (CMC) and
social media using the formats of the [Text Encoding Initiative
(TEI)](http://www.tei-c.org/){:target="_blank"}.
In an introductory section participants will learn about the general
architecture of TEI encoding schemas and about rules for the creation of
so-called customizations which allow for extending the use of TEI with textual
genres and in domains which are not yet covered by the current version of the
TEI guidelines. Examples for TEI customizations are the representation schemas
for CMC/social media genres developed in the TEI special interest group
"computer-mediated communication".

In a hands-on session, participants will learn how to use these customizations
to create a basic TEI representation for their own CMC/social media data.  For
this purpose participants may bring samples from their own data/corpora or
select a sample from collections of Wikipedia talk pages in several languages
prepared by the instructors. Format specifications for participants’ own data
will be announced in advance.  For the hands-on session, participants will be
asked to bring a laptop computer with WLAN and a full or trial license of the
oXygen XML editor.

The tutorial is funded as a [CLARIN User Involvement
Event](https://www.clarin.eu/news/1st-call-clarin-user-involvement-event-proposals-2017){:target="_blank"}
and will be held in association with the [5th Conference on CMC and Social Media
Corpora for the Humanities (cmccorpora17)](/), held Oct 3rd & 4th @ Eurac
Resarch, Italy.

There will be no registration fee for the workshop.  Registration will be
possible as of June 30, 2017 via
[https://cmc-corpora2017.eurac.edu/registration/](/registration). Participants
who also want to attend the main conference can register for the workshop
together with their conference registration.  The registration fee for the main
conference is 75 EUR and includes conference materials, coffee breaks, and
lunch.

#### The tutorial is held by:

 * Harald Lüngen (Institute for the German Language, Mannheim, Germany)
 * Michael Beißwenger (Universität Duisburg Essen, Germany)
 * Laura Herzberg (University of Mannheim, Germany)

#### The workshop is organized by:

 * Michael Beißwenger (University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany)
 * Ciara R. Wigham (Université Clermont Auvergne, France)
 * Egon W. Stemle (Eurac Research, Italy)

#### [Provisional Agenda](/schedule/#day3)
