---
layout: post
title:  "For Authors"
permalink: /authors/
isStaticPost: false
---
By now, you should have already received the comments by the reviewers in an e-mail. Please take them carefully into account.

#### Papers
The paper will be published in the online proceedings. The paper is due on
**August 21st**.

You should submit your non-anonymised, camera-ready paper using your [EasyChair
proceedings author role for cmc-corpora
2017](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cmccorpora2017).

The page limit is 4 pages + up to 2 pages of references, and all submissions
must follow the [template](#templates).


#### Posters
The dimensions of your poster can be up to DIN A0 format (841 × 1189
millimeters or 33.11 × 46.81 inches) in portrait orientation.

An extended abstract will be published in the online proceedings. The extended
abstract is due on **August 21st**.

You should submit your non-anonymised, camera-ready extended abstract using
your [EasyChair proceedings author role for cmc-corpora
2017](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cmccorpora2017). 

The limit is 15-20 lines of abstract text (roughly around 500 words), and
optionally the rest of the page for references. All in all, your extended
abstract and the references must not exceed a single page. Use the *Abstract*
text field (the top text field that spans both columns) of the
[template](#templates) for your text and the two columns format for your
optional references. 


#### Templates
<a id="templates"></a>

The templates are available here:

 - [MSWord Template](/assets/authors-kit/template_msword_cmc-corpora2017.dotx) ([Example document](/assets/authors-kit/template_msword_cmc-corpora2017.pdf))
 - [Libre-/Openoffice Template](/assets/authors-kit/template_open-libre_cmc-corpora2017.ott) ([Example document](/assets/authors-kit/template_open-libre_cmc-corpora2017.pdf))
 - [LaTeX Package](/assets/authors-kit/template_latex_cmc-corpora2017.tgz) (Example included)

Any questions should be sent via [e-mail](mailto:cmccorpora2017@easychair.org).
