---
layout: post
title:  "Final Call for Papers"
permalink: /cfp/
isStaticPost: false
---
### 5th Conference on CMC and Social Media Corpora for the Humanities (cmccorpora17)

The 5th conference on CMC and Social Media Corpora for the Humanities will be
held in Bolzano/Bozen, Italy on 3-4 October 2017 and will focus on the
collection, analysis and processing of mono and multimodal, synchronous and
asynchronous communications. The focus will encompass different CMC genres.
These include, but are not limited to, discussion forums, blogs, newsgroups,
emails, SMS and WhatsApp, text chats, wiki discussions, social network
exchanges (such as Facebook, Twitter, Linkedin), discussions in multimodal
and/or 3D environments (virtual worlds, gaming worlds). 

The conference will bring together researchers who are interested in the
collection, organization, processing, analysis and sharing of CMC data for
research purposes. We invite submissions on corpus analysis of various types of
CMC data for linguistic or applied linguistic purposes and Natural Language
Processing. 

The conference is hosted by [Eurac
Research](http://www.eurac.edu){:target="_blank"}
and will include a [post-conference workshop](/uievent) on using the TEI for
annotating CMC and social media resources (5 October). 
It will be followed by the [4th Learner Corpus Research
Conference](http://lcr2017.eurac.edu/){:target="_blank"},
which will be held at the same venue from 5-7 October. 

#### Topics of interest

 1. Development of CMC corpora 
   - Building CMC corpora: from data collection to publication 
   - Open data for research on CMC: questions of ethics and rights 
   - Annotation of CMC genres: representation of CMC genres, annotation of linguistic phenomena, metadata 
   - Multimodal corpora 

 2. Analysis of CMC corpora 
   - Sociolinguistic studies of CMC 
   - Discourse analysis of CMC 
   - Linguistic characteristics of CMC 
   - Multimodal aspects of CMC 
   - Language in contact and code-switching in CMC 
   - CMC in language learning & teaching 

 3. Natural Language Processing of CMC 
   - Normalization 
   - PoS Tagging 
   - Lemmatization 
   - Syntactic parsing
   - Named-entity recognition 

#### Submission procedure 

We invite submissions for papers, posters and software/corpus demonstrations on
any topic relevant to the above list of themes. For this conference, we are
requesting extended abstracts (2-4 pages) in English. All abstracts will be
peer-reviewed by the scientific committee. All submissions should follow the
template which you can download here:

 - [MSWord Template](/assets/authors-kit/template_msword_cmc-corpora2017.dotx) ([Example document](/assets/authors-kit/template_msword_cmc-corpora2017.pdf))
 - [Libre-/Openoffice Template](/assets/authors-kit/template_open-libre_cmc-corpora2017.ott) ([Example document](/assets/authors-kit/template_open-libre_cmc-corpora2017.pdf))
 - [LaTeX Package](/assets/authors-kit/template_latex_cmc-corpora2017.tgz) (Example included)

Please submit your paper via the [online conference
system (EasyChair)](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cmccorpora2017). 

Paper presentations will consist of a 20 minute talk followed by 10 minutes
for questions and discussion.  The poster presentationand software/corpus
demonstration session will be opened with each presenter/demonstrator giving a
one-minute ‘teaser talk.’ Accepted papers will be published in *online
proceedings* before the conference. After the conference, authors of
best-reviewed papers will be invited to submit extended versions of their
papers to be published in an edited monograph to appear in 2018. 

#### Important dates 

<div class="row">
<div class="col-xs-11 col-xs-offset-1">
{% capture my_include %}{% include important_dates.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }}
</div>
</div>

{% include committees.html %}
